all right welcome everyone to the ILD
sync meeting it's made of false oh yeah
on 20 Fendi and every week we go over
the stuff that we've done in the past
week and then discuss any open items we
might have for the attendees please put
your name on it a nice list
yeah so I start with myself so in the
past week I've done work on the last
icon D on a block API I thought it was
ready and then I figured out that
obviously also IP LD needs to be generic
over codex so that it can pass in your
own colleague table currently IP LD just
uses the correct table that Marty hash
and CID provides and that's kind of like
a bigger change and probably needs a bit
more of discussions with other
contributors so I will do this change
first and then come back to the book API
then on the take Chason spec I opened up
the hour about making things clearer and
tightening it down and there's clearly
discussion and I hopefully hopefully we
can resolve this and just keep that they
chase on simple because it doesn't seem
to be agreement on the base encoding of
the C IDs but yeah hopefully we go for
my preferred easiest solution but what C
and on my decoding stuff that's probably
also one of Rods
items is that finally you wrote and I
found agreement on the 5 coin stuff that
because they want to edit new new codex
to it and the conclusion is pretty
simple that we still are not sure why
they want to add to codex for their
stuff but
we trust them hence we agree that they
should edit with the correct cable and
we still hope to get an explanation on
why it's really needed but we'll see if
this happens so far it hasn't um cool
yeah that's all I have next on my list
is Michael
yeah yep so got most of the multi-format
stuff done all the specs are implemented
now the CNE stuff is there with all the
braking exchanges and full test coverage
now we're talking about this binary
stuff trying to figure out if we can
drop the buffer API or not it's we're
good
like we may know so yeah I'll stay on
top of that next steps there are two
start to port over all the codecs and
then pour over the new block interface
so there's still quite a bit of work to
get done but yeah the base interface is
there and it works and it's pretty nice
so people should definitely look into it
also I made more progress on on dengue D
so there's there's an indexing engine
now this is a really interesting data
structure to build that's been fun had
to go in and add enum support to the
schema validation library that I wrote
so that pretty much I think a complete
implementation of the schema language
I'm pretty sure I'd be missing a few
corners here but I think I got all of
them now oh I also trained him really
nasty bug in the block API working on
the stuff um where you were passing in
just simple pipes that weren't embedded
inside of strings in the way that we've
actually messing them up quite a bit so
it's really bad and kind of got a relief
that for that
so that's fixed now and that's about it
for IPL this definitely thinks is a
bunch of stuff that was started ages ago
and just kind of languishing the type
theory glossary which had a ton of
comments from people in and out of this
group is now landed thanks everyone for
comments on that so it's also terrifying
to try to do any coherent talk about
a summary of type theory in which we
don't give too much credence to any
particular terms but still get super
concrete and constructed those are
really hard balance to strike so it's
probably still not perfect by the way
not even know that it is so if anyone
has subsequent PR alone that great the
library design recommendations doc has
also merged and I started doing a ton of
example stuff okay not at all I started
doing example stuff in the go I filled
the primary pump so those are test files
that are executable and also those show
up as examples of the documentation
online probably going to need even more
of those but there's a start I've been
kicking around the Linga API design
problem which I guess is something that
the Java Script is reviewing at the same
time is this chip I've been trying to
solve for how to have a reasonable
interface for links and at the same time
not have a really concrete dependencies
between the linking codex and such
things as this so that the dependency
tree transitively doesn't get out of
hand and the solution that I have for
this one go currently it works it
doesn't have a dependency tree that gets
out of hand but it's also you know very
pleasant or terse to use so like
nobody's really happy with it
myself included I've generated a lot
more notes on that if anybody wants to
check them out maybe they'll be
cosplaying with local I don't know more
effort still need it there in the future
I guess
the only piece of good news for a week
is a bunch of other transit dependencies
of go IPL d-prime the ball now gone on
the latest generation where I've got the
note assembler stuff so that's exciting
that's about it for me thanks next is
Rob feel free to type later
it's mainly been consumed with Bitcoin
the other thing on this first is the
multi-format stuff doc has focus said we
think we've arrived at that I think
they're ready to merge if I could just
make that happen and make that team
happy I suppose it's not it's not
entirely satisfactory but I think I
think that's reflective of this problem
which is we're tempted to make this
satisfactory to our model but so many of
these different ecosystems that are
using that will want to use these things
are gonna have their own models that
don't necessarily overlap 100% with ours
and so I don't know if achieving 100%
comfort is the best goal for multi
formats so it's like it's let's make
sure it really it passes a bar and then
and a nest of them sort of the minor
threshold and if they can justify it on
their terms then it's fine
so Volker and I did some talking about
how to describe that and how we might
describe that in some Doc's so that work
needs to be done as well but he had
three pull requests on two multi formats
to get the table updated in Bitcoin so I
found I did attest a across the
blockchain with my code last week I
think it was which was exciting at a
time but now I realized that it actually
didn't do a proper test at all it was
skipping over some things and so and it
also wasn't doing the full I hadn't got
it doing the full round-trip that I
needed it to do so can ID code represent
the native structures and then Rhian
code again and so I did that last week
finally the whole lot so and then I went
through the blockchain I found some edge
cases so I can I can now tell you all of
the edge case blocks in their Bitcoin
blockchain that have
novelty in them so pulley try those out
and put them into my test fixture should
test framework fixture set and but I can
successfully do it for the whole a whole
lot now which is good good news so
that's a big step forward and I am I'm
working on the eye peeled a front end
for this stuff and I think what I'm
doing is is designing it for Michael's
new whatever the thing is the multi
formats CID block thing that Michaels
working on new interface thing assist
multi formats it's just all of multi
formats instead of like one part of
multi formats so we can just call it
almost it's sort of the block stuff is
also bundled up in there as well so so
basically trying to move away from the
old API where you've got you know util
and then serialize and resolve and this
strange structure and doing something a
little bit more native to the new block
API so encode decode and whatever the
third one is and so because I need to do
that for at least three different types
now so I've got three different codecs
for Bitcoin and so that's the plan there
I I think I've currently integrating my
work into the old Bitcoin JavaScript
library I haven't put that on github yet
but I think I'm just gonna involve that
to the new stuff put the other two in
there other two colleagues in there and
make sure I've got a test thing going on
for that and in yeah I think that that
work should go fairly quickly now then
I've got those sort of hard
tedious bit formatting work done I'm
actually right now I'm stuck on writing
documentation that's just taking a
little bit of time and
and yeah looking after kids as well so
that's my that's my week thanks
does anybody also have any updates I
have one thing I forgot to say that for
the next week is that also basically for
also for people watching that and
crudely currently there's a huge
interest in graphs Inc and also kind of
related selectors but it's Remo
stressing and I couldn't try to get all
people together that are interested in
implementing so because they graph thing
is also using five coin and inactive s
so there's interest from the rust side
of things on both sides also there is
interest on that shallow script side
from Chris and yes so just I try to Lee
to collect all the people getting them
together and then yeah move forward so
they're not too many double efforts and
also things like for example I've talked
with people about selectors that
currently there's the reference
implementation is ago and there is also
testing go but it's really like they're
written go and perhaps create something
that takes test features they can be
used across languages and so on and
stuff like this so this repeater yeah
what I want to get people together and
then discuss and so on so expect like
yeah just tell me and then I will make
sure you are involved and then yeah I
won't yeah post on all the issues where
things are happening and so on so that's
kind of my plan I'm not sure how soon
this would happen but it's probably this
starting this week and then going on to
next week but yeah it's just yeah too
many people are too busy so we'll see
how this goes yeah okay now we are up to
questions or any other items
if there are no questions I might
quickly talk about the deck chase on PR
because it looks like it's the beginning
of a long discussion again I am
currently so deck Chase is basically a
format which is yeah mostly for
debugging purpose and currently I want
to tighten up the spec a bit and I
thought it would make sense that we just
restrict the CID is to base64-encoded M
C IDs the reason being that it's like
base64 is just like available everywhere
even in the browser in the soup easy and
the problem there is you couldn't encode
for example CID version zero McD's with
it but honestly I don't see a problem
with it because you can just encode your
C IDs as CD version 1 and then transform
it to a CD versions your if you need it
for your application
so just what should I quickly see like
could we like does anyone have really
good reasons why we should support like
for example full base encoded C IDs in
big JSON and not just like base64 but
there's a bunch of API as an IP FS that
seem like they ought to have an opinion
about this like I think a bunch of dag
JSON is used to facto in a bunch of
those oh okay that's a good point
Jake good funk shouldn't be used
anywhere there is like it very good JSON
representation they used to call
canonical representation just IPL D that
is like wrong like good I know that's
the case then I retract my comments I'm
just surprised there's nobody in the
world who uses
v-0 see ideas in some sort of a JSON
document that just seems to me okay too
busy a third concern is that you don't
want to break ipfs basically it's so
basically if like the set of things that
use JSON and see id be zero I cannot
imagine that that's an empty set that
seems incredibly unlikely it's no doing
the question that I have about Yeti v-0
is there a binary representation or is
it strictly strings like are are they
always basic 58 or if they're actually a
binary version of zero there is like the
the the but I mean the thing that you
base in code is base 58 is everything
but do we do that anywhere yeah yeah for
example in in seaboard for example if
the binary and link alpha house well but
here's the thing though the decoded so
to speak see a DB 0 is literally a multi
hash so with a lot of conversations
about you know about storage changes and
this and that we're we're going to use
multi hash only this probably not
directly but indirectly somehow will
clash with something
so it's my understanding is that those
changes are intended to make this not
understanding is the legs but the reason
to go to multi hat store is it so that
if you have a CI DV 1 or B 0 to the same
data and you have the same underlying
yeah absolutely what I meant is that if
in the store all we have is a multi
cache from you know kind of one code
path and from another code path you all
of a sudden have this thing that used to
be always AK um but now is this by
narrating the disease also multi cache
you might end up in a weird situation
and I'm not saying I can see right now
where the clashes but it just gives me a
bad feeling
I don't know that the way that we
support v-0 is really happy but kind of
everywhere um yeah I know I don't know
what a good solution here is yeah but I
but I just like as Eric mentioned I
think I mean DB there is some JSON
output from my PFS and I think it's
certainly using like the c dv0 of course
for the for the i'm take PP api so um i
guess that that's a good point that it
would make sense to support those and
then we need to support yeah basically
all types of series yeah I'm gonna check
the IP of s API and then ya come from
there I think other people might be
expecting that as well like I'm trying
to remember and I'm sure I do not have a
complete photographic memory of but what
the radical project for example does I'm
pretty sure they're using a bunch of
JSON and they might be expecting disco
bath to do
yeah I mean like it's it's it's also
like it's it's totally fine to do it
this way I just wanted we as always like
making the spec is like small as
possible it's not having like all
possible things but if that's certainly
used in the wild which I wasn't aware of
then it's gonna make sense to just say
well it is slash and then a pacing call
it CID whichever based one yeah yeah we
might end up in general Union and
descriptive specs here rather than
prescriptive specs you can't just do
whatever you can't just do whatever base
encoding you want because then we'd like
to terminate them the rule is gonna have
to be that if it's these are it's
basically and enough let's do one then
it's alright if we want to oh yeah if we
want to have yeah that's true if we want
to have it can Donna clear
representation we have to choose one but
then but it may see if people have that
it doesn't make sense to support the CV
zero because you can also convert
between it no no no but you can't be
zero can only be represented with fifty
a BTC so you still had you still have
determinism no I mean if we're gonna do
a round trick with the data though like
that's that's my concern my main concern
here is if you want to be able to do a
full round trip where 0 0 and 0 comes
out you lose mobility here it's the same
thing with no formal rules so the rule
is that it's basically a BTC encoded
that's the only way to stream represent
easier only ever and then you can
optionally represent any v1 with any
base encoding but even if you were to
view v1 base encode the ID it would not
match so you're still preserving V 1 or
V 0 yes but but but he could but it
could convert as C V 0 12 you want
that's different that's not that's
actually a transport that's a different
block that should be different I'm just
saying I'm fine with I I like the idea
of representing V 0 as his base 58 and V
ones is a 64 because then you retain the
round-trip ability but if you forced
everything to base 64 and up up code at
everything every V 0 into a V 1 you'd
lose the round trip so that in any time
you put a V 0 in there just come down as
a V 1 and you don't know what it was
you don't know if this thing was a visa
at one point and I I think that kind of
information that that's the kind of
information I think is more likely to be
critical in some path that is much more
distant from where we are like somebody
write down the down the the software
stack that is relying on the fact of V
zeros and then where he is I know
everything should be a v1 life and I
think that's gonna break too much stuff
to keep in mind is that like people that
are really trying to trim down their
dependencies now that we have this new
multi-format stuff where you can you
know drop support for things
people are gonna drop support for base
58 because it's the only base encoding
that requires a big depth so you're
gonna end up with cases we're like even
though we're supporting v-0 inside of
dead gay son the day Jason codec is
gonna throw an exception if you try to
decode or base 58 encoded CID because
people are just like not actually
shipping so it's not like we entirely
get out of it like you're still gonna
stumble over this issue okay so
basically then we basically use we use
Bayes so we support for version CD
version one we only support base
encoding and for version zero we just
support the base 58 which is the only
base representation we have anyway it's
this what we're gonna do the only way to
go I mean so basically we don't so we
think we do in support just this is the
big like could be the point we don't
support base 32 encoded version one
series no okay yeah okay
let me think about this for a second
that also checks out to me because I'm
thinking of Heather shakes out in the
coding go and so the go CID library it
has this structure for all the
additional metadata in CID and that
includes the version and multi-national
by hash length and multi codec and it
does not include the base right so it
stands for all of the code that I have
that depends on those the ID library
which is been around quite a while and
does not contain any of my opinions by
the way then the base just isn't a part
of what that is so the base effectively
does not fit into any of the data model
and so it's still base it's it's still
multi base encoded it still has a prefix
that tells you what the base encoding is
yeah but the ghost CID library does not
for better for worse then again
this is not my opinion I'm telling you
what somebody else it's not so it just
ignores the free picks and does whatever
you tell it to do you can't know can't
decode you can't decode the string or no
it does not retain the memory of what
that vase was used oh yeah no no that
the new CID library doesn't do that
either
that's a 10 that was a terrible decision
like yeah no that's the right thing to
do because we don't want is you you want
like deterministic behavior Adam that's
extreme API you don't want it to like
yeah no totally I I'm in agreement there
I think that like my my sysm about about
the spec here is like one if it's multi
be encoded decoders you're just gonna
pass that into a multi basically coder
and not actually check if it was
improperly encoded so in a similar
situation to what we have with
deterministic key sorting we will end up
supporting in deterministic behavior
here on the decoder we just need to like
specify and try to ensure that all of
the end coders do the same thing and do
it deterministic so what we're really
saying it's like the end coder should
always use basics before multi base for
v1 and then for zero do the base to do B
to see the last thing that I'm hesitant
though is that we have gone through a
lot of effort to make base 32 the
default encoding everywhere so like the
default for 2 string will return base 32
or base the abt see if it is B zero and
that's been like a nice really easy
operation that you can do without
checking anything well you're now gonna
have to check that and Dubey 64
explicitly and I know that we're gonna
save bytes in the deck JSON format it's
just like we went through like a lot of
pain to move everything to base 32 by
default to make nice URLs and I'm just
wondering if like we should just eat the
extra size and make it base 32 so that
it's just consistent everywhere and to
me
reason for using base 64 is basically
that and almost everyday English has
space 64 support building unlike
standard library or something so it's
like it's simply easy to consume they
say so no pretty use it even if you
don't have the full thing hold it up and
pace 32 you don't so that's my reason to
do it give some nice human readability
I mean basically to the implementation
of age 32 is like a very tiny function I
mean the one in JavaScript it doesn't
take any dependencies it's just it's a
very very tiny function and it's in the
default set a base encoding because
there's no depth I'm a little confused
still though wasn't kind of the one of
the goals to not need people to pull in
the number without whatever it is is
using in JavaScript to work with to hit
six bit numbers because you can do an
actual you know almost byte level
transform to base 32 to base 64 but you
cannot do so to base 58 we actually need
to represent the entire thing as base to
guessing and yeah yeah that's that's
what I was saying for about how one
thing that you will find when people
swim down the number of functions of
their shipping it still get exceptions
decoding or potentially end coding
database on if we're trying to use be
zero because they won't have the
basement
exactly so yeah isn't one of the ways
out of this is to actually define two
fixed and codings
for instance see a DB one is always
base64 because it's just you know
shorter and a see a DB 0 is always based
32 and that's that
yeah db0 can't be based thirty-two you
can't do based 32 of these you can only
do based 58 BTC because it and again
it's like a crazy hack but good point
yeah because we had so busy the
discussion we currently have is sighs to
be clear that version we won will be
based 58 because there's no other way
and now we discuss should version v1b
base 64 or base 32 right but I mean the
the point that Michael made earlier is
essentially uh no question because if
somebody needs to support say dv0 in any
shape or form they need to have big na
right I know I know actually don't know
if big num is one on the depths that
gets pulled in I mean first of all like
we have they get degrees in the platform
now we have big integers in the platform
now the dependency that gets pulled in
is called base X actually and it's like
a but an implantation of several base
encoding you would need like in the
curtain a cooker in big JSON
specification you would need big nominee
way because it's we represent integers
as big numbers in JSON so just you know
as an information so we currently so you
mean besides are basically you would
need big numbers support in order to
pass deck chase on properly yes big
numbers are like are pretty available
yeah and your policy so but yeah anyway
so what is it what is it main vocal we
we use bignum for representing religions
we put them in using so the current
specs so it can spec says that and do
you know that Jason Jason does make a
decision on how big the numbers aren't
so we say put in any number you want
into your chase on the air for also in
Dec chase on
and you need to make sure that you
represent the number in your language
whatever it is so basically so currently
if you use a JSON browser you can use
you can't pass they chase or natively
basically because there might be a big
big integer number it oh because this is
just just in case there's a very large
integer okay yes sign up the way I've
been dealing with that is just saying
having a path where it's like okay do
you want big numbers support well then
you're gonna have to opt in to stuff but
but you can you can parse this stuff
natively it's just that you may not get
big numbers out of it so it's like you
have talked in as a consumer of the of
these libraries yes one that hassle then
its life like the CID version zero thing
if we can make that pluggable do you
want CID version zero to be supported or
throw exceptions well it's up to you
yeah stupido what was your point no and
was asking what was your point about the
big numbers of stuff I did literally
like what I wrote just said that it
almost seems like just the way basically
CAG be zero right now is equivalent to a
bignum dependency almost and yeah so so
actually I said this is the way that we
should probably change the spec but like
in general all of the codecs need to
round trip with without any loss a
persistent or change in the hash you
should be able to always decode and then
encode again and always get the same
thing so that has implications on
ordering in maps and it also has
implications in JavaScript for number
representation because if you round the
numbers then you're not going to get the
same hash when you think of that's the
problem so like if somebody you know if
you we're not saying how you have to
parse that in order to in order to
preserve the number we're just saying
that like your encoder and decoder need
to you know reliably produce the same
thing even when you have either death or
throw an exception that yeah I don't
know support that right
okay I'm coming back to the base
encoding so I mean I don't care if it's
base64 our base 32 dagger man famous
both I just saw that basics it was more
so Oh basically okay the point is I also
want to do base 64 us because we encode
binary this base 64 so you need a basics
before encoded for that one anyway so I
thought well make sense to also base
encoder cities because well we have that
anyway yeah I mean it's fine it's fine
I'm I was just considering it we are
we're trying to Jason does have this
nice property that you can print it in a
human readable form and if CID is my
base 32 then there would be much more
recognizable I don't know that's also
gonna make the line huge so I don't know
so much more readable that it is when
you consider the the rap you don't you
don't you for the size of a CID like
you're gonna save like ten characters no
five characters at most it's more than
that but it's noticeable it's no no it's
seven characters is that right no it's
more than that I think it's like 11 or
something but more to your point rod
they're not only human readable most
gateways and you know local
installations and whatever support
subdomains see IDs based that's two
encoded we pay 64 you cannot do this so
we can yeah that's not stuff into a
browser adjacent document that's not
necessarily injured deck Jason that's
not really our concern though because
that stuff gets hidden yeah so this nice
so what what the trade-off that we'd be
making is that we'd be eating bytes in
the block format for saving our e-base
encodes
when we do stuff with them later because
that that basic encoding does get cached
when it gets when it gets parsed so we
never actually have to generally did
again so there is like a slight
efficiency gain on the compute side but
we're we're literally adding why it's
the efficiency we talk about take chase
and I take chase is no no
also also compressions to think so it
doesn't totally like to be the point
about digestion is it's a format that
represents the data model and you can
use it mostly I guess for debugging
purposes or for exchanging on platforms
where you don't really have like a
Seabury encoder or something so but he
limited platforms and therefore I think
it makes sense Missy stripped down
the dependencies on like external things
you need so if you need only a base64
encoded for decoding binary you have
that already you would need to have
another base encoder for your CDs you
can just use the same one if you want to
decode them and if you don't want to
touch them or decode them you already
don't need the decoding anyway so it
doesn't matter if it's base 32 or 64
yeah this would be my point but I mean
yeah it could I just I can just imagine
it getting annoying where you've got
Jade egg Jason Darla I mean you're
looking debugging or you're looking
through stuff and you get coming into
these CI days and you have to pull them
out and decode basics for re and code
base that is you just to see what CID
that is like you have to it's like it
becomes like dealing with seaboard where
you have to pass that's my closet to get
to things that's a good point
like that's yeah you just like I guess
in the future you will be used to pay 62
in cotton yeah and if you back in KC
like oh hey it's the CID and then you
okay um I can see that point good point
also the base 64 and base 32 and clearly
decoders are insanely small so it's not
actually so I'm not as worried about
taking extra ones on except for base 58
that's that's the one that's actually
like a real pain can we make that
another pain I haven't looked at the
code for that but okay so these okay so
do we then use phase 32 encoding for the
CDs yeah yeah okay I mean like also like
the binary like the binary so probably
so again thinking about like how a chain
is used
you probably don't ever decode the
binary stuff like like you see a base64
encoded string we don't care about it
probably yeah from a practical
perspective so well I mean when you
decoded the block you automatically
decoded into a buffer no any point
though if you're debugging something
then you're not gonna be looking at that
so it doesn't really matter
okay so okay so we think okay then I
will make a PR on the spec saying that
CID version zero is base 58 encoded CID
version one is space 32 encoded multi
basically yeah and that's a great and
then you have a canonical representation
of your day chase on because round trips
yeah okay cool thing so I guess this
saved about like I don't like two hours
of everyone discussing it on github I
guess okay yeah cool yeah I will do this
tomorrow
cool thanks for a time on neck
discussing this yeah there's be cool
good all right anything like sorry just
to continue this thought Michael I think
that so just looking through the basic
coding stuff in JavaScript you can see
that there is a fast we have a fast path
for base64 a base 32 because that's
fairly easy but for base 58 and the
other novel bases we have to go and use
this base X library which is not huge
but it's another dependency and just
wonder whether it would be worth us
implementing our own minimal base 58
biddies BTC encoder just for this case
where if you want is support because
because there's so many places where
you're going to still want v-0 support
and it should be
easy as bass 32 and as native so maybe
we should work on implementing our own
fast path nice 56 58 BTC to plug in and
anything is I see one I think I think
there's already one I think it got
removed with the mantra number one I
think there is one already
I think it's called PS 58 or something
I'm sure there is but you know if we can
just embed these things in our libraries
like it just seems like basically - in
base 58 BTC are just gonna be around
forever
for us and we should just just swallow
that fact and if we make everything else
pluggable with those two things if we
can make make compact representations
that we just ship around with everything
I think I don't think that's
unreasonable
yeah also the base64 implementation
could probably actually be sped up by
using the browser default functions in
the browser like right now it's it's
that function imitation and I bet it's
PTA I mean it is worth this is worth
looking at now Michael you're making
your stuff more pluggable let's look at
these common cases versus uncommon cases
and what can we ship natively that's
fast and compact yeah I mean so open
this way we can do ship the molding
format stuff as is there's already a
base 58 implementation in there that
requires that depth it's just obviously
it's not loaded in by default or
anything
there is a basics file that is like the
multi-format slash basics this is just
like a reasonable set of defaults that
don't have dependencies and it's not in
there if we replaced it with one that
didn't have any external dependencies
then I would just add that to the basic
set so that we had base 58 most people
would yeah the basics is everywhere as
well cos fun again which is not bad it's
not it's not huge dependency but it's
it's it's written to be generic and
maybe we don't need generic for this
case but and if you opt into special
cases and maybe you get genetic
I'm probably not worth dwelling on too
much here all right anything else then
thanks everyone for hemming and areal
for watching and we see us again next
week then on time goodbye everyone